hello hello all right welcome to the design panel if you're
not familiar if you haven't met me I'm Darren I
am the only product designer on blue sky right now hopefully there
will be another one soon check out our careers page if you
know anyone looking but yeah as of tomorrow it will be my
one-year anniversary of this guy so very excited but yeah
I'm very passionate about building social media that is equitable and
really values the user control of people you know I grew up
with social media and I'm I'm very like upset with
how it has evolved over time to just like kind of capture
your attention at all costs and become part of that attention economy
so that's something that I'm very passionate about and a
value that I hold dear to me as I'm designing for
blue sky but yeah we have an awesome panel planned for you
guys today I'm very grateful to be on the stage and
share it with these amazing builders and designers I think design is
really at the intersection of art and technology as well as psychology
and I think their work really exemplifies that on the platform
so I have one more topic but yeah if you guys want
to just do a quick round of intro and then we can
get started hey everyone my name is Dame I built an app
called Anasota it's a weird social media interface for
blue sky and the atmosphere themed around moths and other weird
things like that what's up everyone my name is Peter Mont
elieu and I'm a creative technologist and full stack
engineer from Denver Colorado I work for a company called hovercraft
studio where I do web and experiential experiences for companies like
Nike open AI and Google and on app proto I've been
building aether OS and beacon bits for the last six months
or so I'm stoked to be on the stage with all
y'all it's been a super privilege just to be
here and I want to thank you Darren for bringing me up
here Hello my name is Brooke or you may know me as
brookie.
blog I'm the creator of pocket blog it's a
blogging platform that makes it really easy to start blogging
for anybody I also created the you and me dot at if
you have been using that at the conference thank you and then
I also work on standard site so if you know about standard
site it's bringing publishers together and really making it easy to
distribute publications and documents across the atmosphere Sweet before we jump into
the questions I actually just want to see a quick show of
hands how many people in the audience are designers with it identifies
that cool we have a few and how many are builders looking
to upgrade their design skills all right
sweet most of the room while you come to the right place
all right so we're going to fire it off the first
question here which is just what is something that you've built
in that product that you're really proud of and what were
you trying to accomplish with that project uh yeah so i mean
i've definitely i've built quite a few different things over
the past twelve months or so um i definitely would say an
asota is the one i'm most proud of i've
been working out the longest and um yeah i'm proud of
it because i it's something that i uh i had a
vision for it was something that i uh it was something that
i was uh it
was something that i didn't feel like existed uh i didn
't feel like existed uh uh or was even really possible prior
to the atmosphere um and it really was a way for me
to try to uh reclaim social media to be something that i
felt like worked for me um you know i've been chron
ically online for a long time and you know i took a
long break from social media a couple years ago and decided i
'd come back and see if i could somehow make it work
again um and yes i was really excited to try to build
this uh this basically a social media interface for myself um with
the hunch that other people might enjoy it too um yeah so
anasota is uh yeah it's a social media interface
uh that i think is more peaceful and more uh yeah weird
and fun and bizarre it has like game components to it it
's uh yeah it's based off of uh the name of
a moth um and i'm just really excited how it
turned out uh it's it's getting better every month and
uh even at the conference i put out a big release with
uh finally a brand mark and everything actually looks looks
pretty good
now so i'm excited
yeah um so it's pretty hard to top ather os
getting name dropped by paul on the stage yesterday uh but
i think yeah making beacon bits for the last few months creating
a 3d layer where people are interacting and having i don
't know their beacons just influencing something on a map
and seeing like the collaboration between all that was really powerful uh
and at the end of this event i'm gonna be finally
unveiling what what happens at the end of that event so
stick around for that um but yeah it's just been fun
to be able to mess around with 3d technology on mapping
like that uh collaboratively um so something i'm proud of
uh building on at proto is pocket blog pocket blog is my
my baby uh and it is pocket not pack it or pick
it or whatever else you may think it may be um and
and basically um i the reason that i made it was because
i wanted to start a blog of my own and i actually
i haven't really had much time to be blogging on
my own because i've been building it and it's been
so so wonderful which is it's not a bad problem to
have um but yeah i think that really the main thing is
i wanted something simpler to start blogging uh and something that
feels like all of the tools that you need are really at
your fingertips without having to really search too hard to find everything
that makes running a blog possible possible i'm glad we set
the record straight that's pocket i was asking around before the
dog i was like does anyone know how to say this um
cool so you know social media has been around for you know
over 20 years now since like web 2.
0 has has existed and a lot of the design paradig
ms have really been solidified at this point i'm curious
how you stay fresh in such a well-defined design space
yeah that's a good question uh i've i mean i
've been i've been i started my career in design and
i kind of took a winding roundabout path to get where
i am today i i sort of merged off of design and
went into sort of social media management community management that sort of
thing uh and uh i kind of i mean to some degree
i sort of stopped following like design trends and like what was
happening and i just kept doing my own thing and i mainly
started making art and doing things personally um and we when i
went to when i went to sort of design anasota
and make it into what it is i i did not really
look at really anything that was in the industry or anything i
was i my my core thesis with it is i i wanted
to make something that felt distinctly uh i wanted to make
something that felt distinctly uh well and away from anything that
uh was coming out of like silicon valley um so you know
when i was making anasota i was reading books about
moths i was going out at night setting up light traps
and mothing and uh i took tons of inspiration from all
that as well as things like uh you know classic text based
rpgs and um tarot cards cards and things like
that and um what came about from all that is just kind
of a weird amalgamation so i i think uh i
think my big takeaway from that was just like oh there's
some really interesting things that can happen when you let uh influences
outside of like the normal spaces uh come up to the surface
so um yeah i don't know just look look look in
weird places there's lots of great inspiration in weird places yeah
honestly in this day and age you can vibe code something really
quickly and it'll look like any other social app so i
think there's great importance to be more avant-garde
like look for things that are outside of that space and like
seek it and absorb it as much as possible um yeah i
think yeah i think obviously some app experiences aren't going to
work for everyone but like if it works for you someone will
find the way you think and you'll collaborate and they'll
enjoy what you're doing okay so um when it comes to
design for me it's really like simplifying things
down to the basics and the essentials so i usually will start
with an idea um and it's usually much more complicated than
it needs to be so if i feel confused at all i
'm trying to look and see like you know what can i
take away from this to simplify the process and how can i
make it like as understandable as possible i really try to think
of things from like a user experience sort of perspective um um
and like all the time like i'll build something and i
'll get frustrated with it and i'm like this is just
too hard this is too confusing and i'll be like what
needs to go you know like just cut something out cut something
out and and make it easier to do because so many platforms
these days are like just so overwhelming with like layers and layers
of like interface all to do one simple thing like i don
't know if you've i don't know if i'm
allowed to say this but i don't know if you've
ever been like on instagram and you're like just trying to
find like a post that you've liked you have to go
through like six menus to find a post that you've liked
and that seems like such a basic feature all that you do
on instagram is like stuff so i would like to see my
likes you know so really just like if it feels like too
many steps to do something how can we reduce that and get
it down to as few steps as possible definitely often the the
most beautiful or like the the simplest option is the most beautiful
and elegant one to move forward with so what um are there
any specific problems with social media today that you think uh can
be solved through design yeah i mean i think i mean i
think a lot of things can at least be partially solved through
design um i mean i think one of the biggest things is
um just the fact that that you know historically with social media
everyone has been funneled through one client interface so facebook is
used by billions of people around the world in different cultures and
communities and things and they all have different needs and different desires
and wishes and preferences and things like this um and so well
like design can definitely solve some things um there's also like
some amount that you can't you can't funnel everyone through
one particular thing and it won't work for necessarily everyone um
so i think some of it just comes down to having to
have uh very specific um you know people in mind as you
're designing something um but i also think that together we're
just uh there are a lot of things that fundamentally i guess
over the past 20 years we've realized are not maybe the
healthiest patterns to be seeing and some of those things can
be pretty pretty easy like easily changed in the sense of whether
it's removing things or whether it's um changing the framing
of something and um and some of it just comes down to
experimenting and figuring out like yeah what is uh if this particular
thing is not working and is making people unhappy or is not
healthy or good for society can we can we flip that on
its head and just try something incredibly different so um yes i
think design definitely can can impact things those things dramatically i mean
it's i mean it's to some degree the thesis behind
anisota is like if we could rethink how this looked
from the ground up in a lot of ways uh you know
what might happen and tbd on what that is i
don't know yeah i don't i don't really have
a concrete answer for that but i think uh aaron cass
ine's talk yesterday that started off the whole thing uh was
incredibly powerful and it it got me thinking more about what could
be out of that uh and i'm i don't know
what it is yet but i i want to try and do
something in that regard because it's it's pretty powerful i
think um designing for at proto specifically brings a lot of interesting
things to the table um something in particular that i've seen
a lot of people sort of trying different situations with is for
like authentication flow registration flow um because of the nature of app
proto where you create an account and you can now suddenly log
into all these wonderful services it's really difficult to figure out
how to explain that to the end user like i know for
most of us here it's a pretty understandable situation but when
it comes to people that are you know not used to being
in the developer community um it's a really difficult thing to
communicate and we see a lot of people you know writing a
whole story saying like this is your everything account and you can
use it at these places and at proto and all that stuff
and i think it's really it's an interesting problem of
how do we explain that to the everyday person and and make
it feel approachable without like bombarding people with like too
many too many terms and too many complex ideas because if you
do get an understanding of um like at proto and like your
everything handle it does make a lot of sense but it's
a really difficult problem to communicate that um with the everyday user
definitely i am i think in many ways people who are drawn
to app proto because they're almost refugees from the current landscape
of social media um i did a project in my senior year
of college where we identified the addictive mechanics of social media and
then we built an arcade that exposed each of those mechanics separately
and we we did an exhibition and um where um you know
families would come in and like kids would start playing the game
and they would love the game and then we would like at
some point during the game we would reveal the mechanic underlying the
game and the kid would immediately just like you know disengage
and walk off and then the you know the parents who are
with the kids were like oh wait no hold on come back
you have to learn this like you this is important this is
what's wrong with your phone right now this is why you
're addicted to it um so that's definitely something that at
blue sky we definitely try to be very conscious of as we
're designing um so yeah i think also the riff off of
that for this next question um are there any specific uh challenges
or rewarding aspects of designing for a decentralized uh social uh social
landscape or on that further yeah i mean i think the most
rewarding thing is just it's so remixable you can you
can take anything and just like make it your own you can
you can give your own spin on things because it's so
flexible and malleable and there's not really there's
so much so so many fewer barriers to being able to do
different things so it feels like you're in a sandbox and
you can just like or like you're playing with legos
and there's just like so many different things you could possibly
do which can also be overwhelming it's like what what exactly
do i do here um but i think it is one of
those it's kind of like when you get a when you
get like a fresh notebook and you're like what do i
what do i put on the first page here uh and that
's kind of what my journey was with making things in the
atmosphere is i'm just going to start making random things and
and see what happens and and i did that for about a
year until i and that's when i eventually was like okay
now that i've made all these different things i'm i
'm gonna actually try to like hone in on something um of
all the different things that i made i want to hone in
on one particular sort of niche and figure out like oh what
how can i this is the thing i love this is the
aspect of the atmosphere i love and i'm gonna dive deeper
into that because there's really so many different niches and
parts of it and um i think that's what's interesting
it really does feel like there's something for everyone like journalists
are doing things uh you know artists are doing things content creators
are doing things um which is just so fun i don't
know i don't feel like i've ever seen a community
that has been able to like reach so many different types of
people beyond just like software engineers and developers and and those kind
of folks so i think that's that's my favorite part
yeah i think it's pretty powerful just the level of that
we get for free out of this um but it's also
can be super overwhelming for anyone who's trying to do something
that much more complex so there's like just trade-offs
in knowing like what your product is what you're trying to
achieve um and yeah i think that just adds either to the
complexity or the beauty or the beauty of it but uh it
's something to embrace i think one of the most like wonderful
things that i um like about the app proto and um really
dislike applications on the atmosphere is that since we're publishing these
lexicons it really opens up a lot of possibilities for
communities to um send sort of form around even just your le
xicons so for example with you and me at it's
a very simple concept very simple lexicon but the first
thing that happened when i like sort of put it out there
and announced it is people were were like oh it should do
this it should have a leaderboard it should have um this
it should be you know verifiable between like each person instead
of just one-sided and the really cool thing about at
proto is that that's all possible and i don't have
to do it so business goose um who's great made a
leaderboard and it shows all of your connections and shows the
top people that are connecting and it's really cool because like
that's something that the community really wanted and like of course
if i had more time i would have loved to build that
as well but um i also didn't want to over compl
icate what what it is and make it more confusing than it
needs to be so it's really great that i can just
make something that's like the simplest like bare bones like piece
of the puzzle and then anybody who wants to can come and
build something on top of that and and really extend the capabilities
um of of the platform that's awesome yeah
um that's something that's really surprised me about this community
is exactly what you said it's just like someone can have
the seed of an idea and get it out there and share
it and then um someone else can just totally take that and
riff off of it and build something beautiful and build it in
their own vision and then someone else can just take it from
there so yeah another really great thing is like with um with
standard site like we just built the lexicons and the
documentation and put it out there and now there's like all
these different like programs that help people implement it which is really
great because we didn't really provide that we just said like
you know here it is we're using it in our own
ways uh if you want to you can figure it out too
but now we have like sequoia and like um which
makes it so that anybody can really publish like their their static
blogs to standard site um and all these other um tools are
being built on top of that and all without us really doing
anything other than being like here's the lexicon you
know figure it out yeah i remember when standard dot site launched
and there were a bunch of us at blue sky here were
super psyched we were like we had no intervention in this
it just kind of happened organically and we love that yeah
um okay here's another uh question here that's so that
maybe a little bit more controversial or you know yeah uh so
i think we're all surprised at how quickly ai has advanced
and and you know we're all i think exploring it in
our own ways and incorporating it into our own workflows um i
'm just curious how it's shown up in your own process
and how you've incorporated it into your work if at all
uh yeah no it's definitely it's definitely very involved in
my workflow um yeah i mean i'm i'm not a
software engineer i'm you know i'm an artist a communic
ator that kind of person so like i'm well i have
you know like any good millennial i have uh you know
some knowledge of and experience making websites and html c
ss that kind of thing and i built some you know rud
imentary software things uh in in other arenas but uh
prior to the atmosphere i'd never made a web app before
and so this was kind of like okay i'm gonna you
know i started working on my first little tool i guess i
don't know two years ago and at the time there was
no clod code there was none of that i was literally
like sometimes typing into the clod chat bot and just being
like explain this to me what do i do here like um
and it couldn't really generate code bases or anything like that
so i was just asking it to like generate chunks of things
and then i would piece them together like lego bricks and
um whereas now it's like it's very incredibly uh i
had a feeling it would get to the stage that it got
to i didn't quite expect it to get there this quickly
um but uh yeah i don't know it's it's
uh i still very much um there's still lots of elements
of the process though that are i feel like uh reserved for
i guess myself to handle like i there's you know like
the design piece is one of the things that i don't
really uh involve clod with that much um i i think
that that's one of the it's sort of the the
layer of the app that um everyone sees and engages with whereas
the code is sort of all behind the scenes and um so
yeah the design component is one of the things i i guess
i i just haven't really involved ai in very much but
um i'm sure there are ways to do that um but
yeah for net for me it's just mostly like oh uh
help me plan out the architecture of this feature and then write
code for it and and then off to the races really yeah
so i've been coding since the late 1900s at this
point and i feel like i've gotten a lot under my
belt but uh it's i mean to say that things have
changed is just an understatement um i think i always
start with wireframes i always start with ideas first uh and
kind of flesh that out first whether it's a story whether
it's an underlying concept um and then you know slowly but
surely introduce ai elements to like like allow you to really flesh
it out and build things that would take years in in months
um but yeah it's it's definitely a huge part of
the process now a hot topic i love that um yeah so
i feel like with ai tools it's really um it's
really a fine line between like you know what is going to
be actually helpful for people and what is like what we're
calling ai slop which is like stuff that we're just like
you know is this really like a good use of our like
resources and like like is this good like for the planet or
like i don't know but like i do think that there
is a lot that is going to be very beneficial from uh
from ai and a lot of um things that a lot of
possibilities that this is going to open up for everyday people and
for developers alike um i actually started building pocket blog before the
whole ai craze but i i don't think that pocket
blog would be where it is today without tools like cloud code
um i've been like developing for a long time actually started
coding on roblox i had a front page game back
in the day and i had like millions of views and like
i bought my first computer with roblox money which is
like amazing but roblox well you could like um transact
they have a developer exchange program so if you get paid rob
ux on roblox you can cash that out for real
money so i i bought my first computer with roblox
money long story short um but yeah like i really i don
't think that i would be where i am today without um
um without like being able to use these new ai tools but
i did start like the dream was there before this happened so
i'm really thankful for what we have and i'm really
excited to see uh like where this can move in a way
that's going to be beneficial for everybody involved and hopefully things
will move away from the more catastrophic side uh which if we
can we're the ones that can make that happen um and
i think that it's really important for us to like put
our best foot forward and be responsible with how we use these
things and not take advantage of you know the power that it
gives thank goodness for roblox thank goodness for roblo
x um yeah i think something that's been really surprising to
me is uh i used to be very anti-ai like
up up until like six months ago actually and in in my
mind i don't have a technical bone in my body i
'm a pure designer um and up until recently i was like
oh design is just like a developer thing it's just like
it makes them work faster that's great um but what i
've been really surprised by is it's it's uh comprehension
of uh design has been leveled up like you know ten
fold in the last couple of months and to the point where
i can send a screenshot and just say hey what do you
think about this this flow or this interaction and it will give
me really solid feedback as if it was from like a senior
designer that i was working with or collaborating with so it i
have incorporated it into you know my design process definitely with fig
ma and i'm excited to see where it goes i've
been exploring tools with with actually designing i don't think they
're quite there yet um but it's definitely a good collabor
ator in in feedback so i'm excited to see how it
evolves and and how it you know i'm definitely going to
keep exploring with it um cool we're down to our last
question here i think a lot of people in the audience are
you know builders who are looking to really upgrade their design do
you have any recommendations or um advice for for people who who
want to build beautiful experiences yeah i mean that's a great
question i guess there's really two paths well there's many
paths but the two big sort of broad groups that i think
of are folks that want to actually learn like the nitty
-gritty elements of design and like make that uh an
actual like discipline and focus for themselves versus folks that want to
um they they don't really want to be designers necessarily but
they want maybe you're a software engineer and you want your
web apps and or apps and things just to look better um
i mean i think there's like there's definitely like a
phenomenon we're seeing even in the atmosphere where you know now
that you know cloud code exists and it's much easier to
build web apps and ship things um there's something i feel
like a a lot of folks are not really thinking about the
design side of things and what you end up seeing is like
user interfaces that look very very similar like you go to one
website and it looks the same as the next and um so
like if you're in that boat you're not trying to
like actually go deep on design like i think there's some
very practical things that you can learn to you know uh help
steer these tools in the right direction so that the things that
you are creating uh better reflect your own unique style or tastes
or things and they don't just end up looking like vanilla
whatever comes out of the comes out of the thing um whereas
if you're you actually want to go deep into design i
mean i think i think a lot of that stuff hasn't
changed i mean you think it's you you have to be
uh you know reading books you have to be looking at some
of the great designers of the past and that work is still
incredibly relevant and um i think you know for me it's
a big part of the process is just regularly consuming uh good
art and good design and letting that sort of absorb into my
brain and influence and influence me because it it's kind of
it's very ambiguous feeling it's not like a very like
it's not a switch you can flip it just takes a
lot of like consuming lots of good content and good ideas and
design so that on the other end something your own unique take
on things flows out on the other end and it's not
you know it's not generic definitely um i think i think
i think a good oh you're good uh i think a
good designer just borrows from designs but uh to be a
great designer you have to study from the world study movies games
uh other media and other mediums that influence you to make
a better design um and just keep your mind open like try
new things try new applications don't stay rigid in one thing
uh and it'll help you out the mind is like a
parachute it only works when it's open those are really great
points um i don't want to get repetitive so i i
believe a lot of the same things the bit of advice that
i would have is to really just like think about who your
application is for and put yourself in their shoes and also after
you design something think of the least technical person that you know
and show them your design and if they're confused you need
to start over so yeah that's really it you want to
think about like who's going to be using your application first
um and then think about who you would want to use your
application that maybe doesn't fit into that initial category of people
and really design for them yeah i love that i love all
those answers never underestimate the power of a user test too i
feel like i've had so many assumptions from like you know
heads down on on something and then i just put it in
front of someone else and it makes no sense to them and
i'm like oh okay back to the drawing board let's
so that's a really powerful way to upgrade your design even
if it's just one person yes absolutely yeah um well awesome
i think that's that's all we have for you today
um i i truly believe that anyone can be anyone who's
looking to uh level up their skills feel free to talk to
me or reach out to me or anyone up here um and
ask for feedback and ask for you know i would be happy
to look over anyone's work and the projects that they're
working on right now and and give that feedback so yeah i
just want to thank thank you all again for coming up here
and uh sharing your thoughts all right